in the seventh year jehoiada
strengthened himself and made a covenant
with the captains of hundreds
Azariah the son of Girona Ishmael the
son of jiha Hainan Azariah the son of
Obed Mei Aesir the son of a daya and
Alicia fat the son of Zechariah and they
went throughout pewter and gathered the
Levites from all the cities of Judah and
the chief fathers of Israel and they
came to Jerusalem then all the Assembly
made a covenant with the king in the
house of God and he said to them behold
the king's son shall reign as the Lord
has said of the sons of David this is
what you shall do one third of you
entering on the sabbath of the priests
and the Levites shall be keeping watch
over the doors one third shall be at the
king's house and one third at the gate
of the foundation all the people shall
be in the courts of the house of the
Lord but let no one come into the house
of the Lord except the priests and those
of the Levites who serve they may go in
for they are holy but all the people
shall keep the watch of the Lord and the
Levites shall surround the key on all
sides every man with his weapons in his
hand
and whoever comes into the house
let him be put to death you ought to be
with the king when he comes in and when
he goes out so the Levites and all Judah
did according to all the jehoiada the
priest commanded and each man took his
men who were to be on duty on the
Sabbath with those who were going off
duty on the Sabbath for Jew hired of the
priest had not dismissed the divisions
and jehoiada the priest gave to the
captains of hundreds the Spears and the
large and small shields which had
belonged to King David there were in the
temple of God then he said all the
people every man with his weapon in his
hand from the right side of the temple
to the left side of the temple along by
the altar and by the temple all around
the King and they brought out the king's
son but the crown on him gave him the
testimony and made him king then
jehoiada and his sons anointed him long
live the king yet now when atholea heard
the noise of the people running and
praising the king she came to the people
in the temple of the Lord when she
looked there was the king standing by
his pillar at the entrance and the
leaders and the trumpeters were by the
king all the people of the land were
rejoicing and blowing trumpets also the
singers with musical instruments and
those who led in praise
so atholea tore her clothes and jehoiada
the priest brought out the captains of
hundreds who were set over the army take
her outside under guard and slay with
the sword whoever follows her for the
priests had said
do not kill her in the house of the Lord
so da seized her and she went by way of
the entrance of the horse gate into the
king's house and they killed her back
then Jawara made a covenant between
himself the people and the king that
they should be the Lord's people and all
the people went to the temple of bail
and tore it down they broken pieces its
altars and images and killed
Matan the priests of bail before the
altars also jehoiada appointed the
oversight of the house of the lord to
the hand of the priests the Levites whom
David had assigned in the house of the
Lord to offer the burnt offerings of the
Lord as it is written in the law of
Moses with rejoicing and with singing as
it was established by David and he set
the gatekeepers at the gates of the
house of the Lord so that no one who was
in any way unclean should enter then he
took the captains of hundreds the nobles
the governors of the people and all the
people of the land and brought the king
down from the house of the Lord and they
went through the upper gate to the
King's house and set the King on the
throne of the kingdom so all the people
of the land rejoiced and the city was
quiet for they had slain as a liar with
the soul
you